# Mongoose
Hey guys, I am Eshwar Jilla and this repository is basically about a game that my friends and I came up with (atleast that is what we think we did) that we play during our free time at college. So sit back and enjoy as I run you through how this game works. The code for the game is also present in this repository, which slightly differs from the actual rules of the game. The reason for that is the human factor of the game and I would incorporate that once I actually develop a full fledged game on this.

Mongoose is actually a very easy card game, where there are four players and each player gets a set of 13 cards from a well shuffled deck of cards. The objective of the game is to get rid of all your cards as soon as possible. Now, let's assume that the four players are A, B, C and D and let's also assume that A starts and B plays after A, C plays after B and so on. Before we jump right into the game mechanics, one thing y'all must know is that there is a centre pile (i will explain what it does and its fucntion soon) and along with this each and every player gets their own pile (this will also be explained soon). Now, when A starts, he/she picks a card from their hand(the 13 cards they got) and places it in the centre pile, lets say this is a "2 of Diamonds". Now A draws another card. If this card is a 3 of Diamonds, only then can it be place on top of the 2 of diamonds in the centre pile, else if this card is of rank 2 but is of another suite, then it can be placed next to the 2 of diamonds in the centre pile itself, or if it is any other card it must be place in A's pile itself. What is basically happeing is if you have a card that is next in rank of the same suit then it can be place on top of the card with the same suit in the centre pile or if you have the starting card of a different suit it can be placed in the centre pile next two the 2 of diamonds pile and if you don't have either of these cards you just place the card back in your own pile. Once you have placed a card in your pile then your turn ends and the next person plays.

Now, it's B's turn. Let's assume that A's turn ended with a 5 of hearts on the top of his/her pile. If B gets a 2 of any suit he can place it adjacent to the diamonds pile in the centre pile or if B gets the next rank of the diamonds suite, in this case 3 of diamonds, he can place it on top of the diamonds pile in the centre pile, or if B gets a & of any suite then he can place it on top of A's pile and his turn will still continue. Now if B hasn't gotten any of the above mentioned cards, he must place the card in his own pile and the turn gets passed to C. The similar process continues with C and then with D and the rounds keep going on. In a situation where a persons hand becomes empty, the he/she must pick up their pile and flip it and continue the game. The game ends once a persons hand and pile are completely empty and the player is then declared the winner.

So everythign described until now is what I have coded and you guys can find it on this repository. Now where the human element comes into play is if a player makes a mistake and places a card in the wrong pile, before he/she plays their next turn, if the other players call "Mongoose" then every player must give the faulty player a card from the botto, of their hand. In a case where they have no cards in their hand, like mentioned before they must pick up their pile, reverse it and give the bottom card.
